README.md, before:

<h2>
  <a href="https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi-gui/">
  </a>
</h2>

<h2 align="center">

![License][license-badge]
[![Project Chat][chat-badge]][chat-url]
[![Pixi Badge][pixi-badge]][pixi-url]

[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-FSL--1.1--MIT-blue?style=flat-square
[chat-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/1082332781146800168.svg?label=&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2&style=flat-square
[chat-url]: https://discord.gg/kKV8ZxyzY4
[pixi-badge]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prefix-dev/pixi/main/assets/badge/v0.json&style=flat-square
[pixi-url]: https://pixi.sh

</h2>

# Pixi GUI (Preview)

A graphical user interface for [Pixi](https://pixi.sh), the cross-platform package manager built on the conda ecosystem. Developed with love at [prefix.dev](https://prefix.dev).

<img width="1316" height="844" alt="pixi_gui_task_overview" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d6e8bdc4-93a9-4bc8-a313-a0528038b4e0" />

For more information checkout the Pixi GUI [announcement blog post at prefix.dev](https://prefix.dev/blog/introducing-pixi-gui-preview)!

## Installation

Install from our conda channel:

```shell
pixi global install pixi-gui --channel https://prefix.dev/pixi-gui
```

## Development

### Running

```shell
pixi run app
```

This will install all frontend dependencies via pnpm and start the Tauri development server.

### Linting

```shell
pixi run lint
```

Runs all linters and formatters for both backend (`clippy`, `rustfmt`) and frontend (`eslint`, `prettier`), plus additional checks like taplo, `ruff`, and `typos`.

### Packaging

```shell
pixi run build-package
```

Builds a conda package using rattler-build. The resulting package can be uploaded to a conda channel for distribution.

## Contributing

We would absolutely love for you to contribute to Pixi GUI! Whether you want to start an issue, fix a bug you encountered, or suggest an improvement, every contribution is greatly appreciated.

Got questions or ideas, or just want to chat? Join our lively conversations on Discord. We're very active and would be happy to welcome you to our community. [Join our Discord server today!][chat-url]

Commit message:

refactor: Update installation instructions in README.md
Clarified installation instructions for Pixi GUI.

README.md, after:

<h2>
  <a href="https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi-gui/">
  </a>
</h2>

<h2 align="center">

![License][license-badge]
[![Project Chat][chat-badge]][chat-url]
[![Pixi Badge][pixi-badge]][pixi-url]

[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-FSL--1.1--MIT-blue?style=flat-square
[chat-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/1082332781146800168.svg?label=&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2&style=flat-square
[chat-url]: https://discord.gg/kKV8ZxyzY4
[pixi-badge]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prefix-dev/pixi/main/assets/badge/v0.json&style=flat-square
[pixi-url]: https://pixi.sh

</h2>

# Pixi GUI (Preview)

A graphical user interface for [Pixi](https://pixi.sh), the cross-platform package manager built on the conda ecosystem. Developed with love at [prefix.dev](https://prefix.dev).

<img width="1316" height="844" alt="pixi_gui_task_overview" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d6e8bdc4-93a9-4bc8-a313-a0528038b4e0" />

For more information checkout the Pixi GUI [announcement blog post at prefix.dev](https://prefix.dev/blog/introducing-pixi-gui-preview)!

## Installation

Pixi GUI is available for Windows, macOS (Intel + Apple Silicon) and Linux. Install from our [pixi-gui prefix.dev channel](https://prefix.dev/channels/pixi-gui/packages/pixi-gui):

```shell
pixi global install pixi-gui --channel https://prefix.dev/pixi-gui
```

## Development

### Running

```shell
pixi run app
```

This will install all frontend dependencies via pnpm and start the Tauri development server.

### Linting

```shell
pixi run lint
```

Runs all linters and formatters for both backend (`clippy`, `rustfmt`) and frontend (`eslint`, `prettier`), plus additional checks like taplo, `ruff`, and `typos`.

### Packaging

```shell
pixi run build-package
```

Builds a conda package using rattler-build. The resulting package can be uploaded to a conda channel for distribution.

## Contributing

We would absolutely love for you to contribute to Pixi GUI! Whether you want to start an issue, fix a bug you encountered, or suggest an improvement, every contribution is greatly appreciated.

Got questions or ideas, or just want to chat? Join our lively conversations on Discord. We're very active and would be happy to welcome you to our community. [Join our Discord server today!][chat-url]
